---
layout: post
title:  "Can't Fake It Till You Make It."
---

_Was for a Facebook post. It got long and I wanted to practice Vim. An extensive commentary (as I would always get in to) to [this article](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1562350/copy-and-paste-from-external-source)._

We're not justifying sin. Sin must be repented of. 

But we don't fake change, either. 

We don't put the cart before the horse.

Change starts from within.

We begin with practicality. When you're practical, you must be thinking right most of the time. Therefore, you're wise, because you embrace wisdom. And wisdom is good. And God is good and all truth and good comes from God.

I believe "Biblicalism" is a highly practical way of life.

Observe.

_We stop swearing_ because there are better ways of strongly expressing oneself. We should express with self control and consideration to the people around us. (Hold up. Saying this, this hurt me tremendously first before it ever might have ticked something in you. No excuses here.)

_We stop adding more tattoos_ to our bodies (if we already have one) because it might be aesthetically unsound (subjective) and tattoos are known to contaminate blood (pretty objective). And, of course, to consider that we are part of a society that still has a stigma against tattoos. We have to take things slow, sometimes.

_We stop constantly getting drunk_ because it's bad for our liver (and our bellies, if you're in to beer) and we usually end up using it to justify a lot of the bad things we do while we're drunk. When, actually, "drunk" sins have little to do with the drink and more to do with your mind while drinking.

_We stop insulting people and being mean_ because it makes them uncomfortable and, depending on the receiving end, it would breed discord, disorder, and a lot of things that define a dysfunctional society. And it's wrong and selfish.

_We stop smoking_ because not everybody wants the smell of smoke. And not everybody wants to die along with you when your lungs give in.

_We don't engage in pre-marital sex_ because if we do it, human relationships unnecessarily get complicated. Hard sell? Be our guest.

_We stop being arrogant and disrespectful_ because we really don't know everything in life. And when we become so full of it, we only hasten our own undoing and be left with no one.

_We stop emulating Jacka**_ in all levels because God made you for better things in life. And when you spend most of your time trying to have fun hurting and/or humiliating yourself consequently (or both at the same time), you miss out on doing better things for humanity in the name of Jesus.

And Jesus certainly didn't save you to hurt yourself or others.

He saved you, first, so that you could give glory to Him..

_And I don't think you'd be exactly doing it through being a total Jacka**._
