---
layout: post
title:  "My Personal Quick And Dirty Wise Voting Strategy"
---

Now that I have been officially a registered voter, I now have this so-called power to effect change to the country by shading hollow shapes on a sheet of paper.

But not everyone thinks of it that way.

You know... the "changing the country" bit.

Everybody in The Philippins have probably already heard of different reasons why some people would leave the comfort of their homes, fall in line outside of their precint, pen some marks down, drop a piece of paper called a "ballot", and go about life whether towards a hopeful anticipation, or to life as we know it typically.

  * We vote for money. Vote buying. Paying people to vote for somebody just because it puts food on their table or buys them an extra venti Frapuccino on their next hangout with some friends.

  * We vote because we have to. Routinary. It's not a "power" per se, voting. It's like filing taxes, only less complex and it happens on huge intervals.

  * We vote, perhaps, we're that just crazy enough to believe that the ballot can still make things better.

Then there's the reason of our choices themselves. Why do we root for whom we'd root for?

>"Because I've been hearing about this guy everywhere."

And he (or she) is the only one you might actually know (not along with a few more) on that long list of names. And you gotta shade one. It makes no sense to a certan extent to root for somebody that you haven't heard of before that the idea makes it the worst type of gambling in humanity.

>"Because he's been kind to us. He did a lot for us."

And he might have smiled, talked, hugged, and have personally gone to your place, too. Why wouldn't you vote for such a guy in a country wherein almost everybody on post is, if not busy laying back in their posts, are somewhere else.

There's probably more but these are the things that I could only think of for now.

I'm voting. But I'm hoping to extend those reasons (if you'd ever echo them have you been participating on elections).

## We Need Effective Leaders -- Not Just Popular Ones.

It has been said that there is "power in numbers". But it has also been said that these numbers wouldn't actually reflect anything commendable. Because they just tell one story.

They just determine a popular eligible, but not necessarily the most effective ones.

_You want people who can effect change on the things that you think everybody ought to care about._

I agree with the thought that a good leader, a good alpha-mojojo, or whatever you wanna call it, should have a heavy charisma because no leader can lead by being doormats and basically nobodies -- but that's just part of why I think we should choose a candidate.

## Two Simple Questions To A Good Pick.

In this ramble, I'll try to list down my personal process for trying to make the best informed decisions that I can make during the elections.

Studying a candidate's background personally, one-by-one, doesn't work for me since I'm not really inclined in to becoming a lay political analyst. And I'd belive The People would also want to spend more time on other things that they deem more valuable.

Here's my current personal approach on choosing who to vote for.

I'd ask myself the following questions:

###1. Does he push for the things that I would personally want to push for?

Pretty easy. If the candidate has been a legislator, check out Bills and Resolutions he'd support or co-write. If he pushes for something that you might specially care about, that's a candidate to consider.

The Internet, of course, is the best place to start looking for these things. And it might sound funny but you should go and check out your prospect's official website and they are usually more than happy to have presented a section dedicated for such information.

###2. Does this guy show up and get things done?

If the candidate has also been on executive positions, check if the candidate would have delivered tangible results within his term. Were his projects really helpful -- even for the long run? Being a government official isn't easy but you'll know somebody who gets things done when you see it.

Does your candidate get anything done? Has it been done well? Were the objectives of their projects valid? Would it help people in their key needs? Was he able to move his people in to action?

There's the Internet, then there's the _not_ Internet. Whereas choosing a legislator for a legislative position would usually require me to simply be in agreement with a prospect's way of thinking and principles, tangibility of results would matter more when it comes to picking an executive.

So, how are you going to do that?

  * You can check for the volume of validly-purposed local infrastructure. Are the roads smooth, are the streets of the locality well-equipped with pedestrian aides, are the street lights even working, etc.

    > "But that's not just for the local government unit to work on. That's what bureaus and departments are for!" 

    And I think it's the local government's job to make sure the needs of their constituents are being fulfilled. A better offical wouldn't always take a "no/wait" for an answer and abruptly cease aspiring for the best of his constituents.

  * You can check for how disciplined the people would become. The followers might just be as bad (or good) as their leader. For the most part, the basic understanding would be that the duty to turn legislation in to execution is an executive, of course. Is there discipline? Are regulations and guidelines being enforced faithfully and adhered to?

    I'd figure, if this guy can make things happen when he hasn't made the cut yet, perhaps it's not that far-fetched to think he'd do the same well he _does_ make it.

## A Fast, No-Fuzz Way Of Choosing Candidates.

And that's pretty much it, actually. No fuzz.

Some people would rather go further in to bit by digging deeper in to the tendencies, background, or the inclination of a person, but I think the things that I would've listed are just a few things if not everything that matters in choosing somebody to lead and produce results.

